ID: 7419
Title: Clear the books
Author: omd
Co-authors: 
Adoption index: 3

Change the power of Rule 1586 (Definition and Continuity of Entities)
to 3, and amend it by appending:

      Rules regarding past events and game values pertain to the
      actual platonic state of the game in the past, not to a mutable
      record implicitly stored in the gamestate.

[See http://www.mail-archive.com/agora-discussion@agoranomic.org/msg26334.html.
 There seems to be some confusion over whether a certain past
judgement implies that the gamestate currently includes history,
though that may be my fault, but I think the issue ought to be
legislated.

Not including history in the gamestate has the potential to cause
weirdness when incorrect documents are ratified, because the true,
ratified-away value can still affect the game if rules refer to the
past, but the only case I can think of where this has actually
mattered is ratifying victories (no longer an issue as you now only
win the game after a victory announcement has ratified, and even if
the gamestate includes history, "our record of history is modified
such that you won the game" is a dubious substitute for an actual
win), and it has the benefit that it's much easier to work out what
happens when rules and proposals try to do weird things with the
gamestate as a whole.  As I mentioned in that thread, whether the
previous, confusingly-worded version of ratification was effective at
doing anything might depend on whether this implicitly defined archive
is "stored" as a list of instantaneous states or a list of changes;
that could be legislated and I might be overblowing the ambiguity, but
I think it's unnecessary mind screw overall.

Why am I randomly submitting this two years later?  Because recent
mention of the first paragraph of R2170 made me think of the
appropriateness of similar wording here.

As for the power change, Rule 1586 really needs to be Power-3 already.]